DOCS-9826: TGW topics (#448)
mulesoft/docs-runtime-manager: modules/ROOT/pages/tgw-manage-arm.adoc

= Manage Transit Gateway Attachments
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

image:logo-cloud-active.png[link="/runtime-manager/deployment-strategies#cloudhub", title="CloudHub"]
image:logo-hybrid-disabled.png[link="/runtime-manager/deployment-strategies#hybrid", title="Hybrid"]
image:logo-server-disabled.png[link="/runtime-manager/deployment-strategies#anypoint-platform-private-cloud-edition", title="Anypoint Platform PCE"]
image:logo-rtf-disabled.png[link="/runtime-manager/deployment-strategies#anypoint-runtime-fabric", title="Runtime Fabric"]

> Use Runtime Manager to manage transit gateway attachments.

Reviewer: I recommend using the full spelling at first use in a Level-1 topic:
```suggestion
Use Anypoint Runtime Manager to manage transit gateway attachments.
```

Reviewer: Anything else to say about the "why" of the task?
Maybe add something that specifies some or all of the subtopics?

== Rename a Transit Gateway Attachment

> To rename a transit gateway attachment:

Reviewer: For each of the following subtopics, should we add something about under what circumstances the audience might want or need to do these things: rename, remove, and so on?

. On the *Transit Gateways* page, click the Transit Gateway menu (*...*) and select *Edit name*:
+
_update screenshot - content and styles changed_
+
image::tgw-rename.png[Edit name option in the Transit Gateways menu]
. In the popup window, enter a new name and click *Save*.

== Remove a Route from the Transit Gateway Route Table

> To remove a route:

Reviewer: ditto: why?

> . On the *Transit Gateways* page, in the *VPCs* section, click the *X* icon in the row for a TGW route in the route table:

Reviewer: This is a bit awkward: "click the *X* icon in the row for a TGW route in the route table"
Here's just one possibility:
```suggestion
. On the *Transit Gateways* page, in the *VPCs* section, click the *X* icon in the appropriate TGW route row of the route table:
```

+
_update screenshot - content and styles changed_
+
image::tgw-delete-route.png[Remove route icon in the VPCs section]

. At the confirmation prompt, click *Remove*.

> == Detach an Anypoint VPC from the Transit Gateway

Reviewer: why?

Because detaching a VPC from a transit gateway also deletes the attachment in AWS,

> undeploy any apps deployed to the VPC before detaching the VPC.

Reviewer 2: I don't think this is appropriate guidance, because detaching doesn't affect the VPC itself. It just means apps deployed to the VPC won't be able to reach anything through the TGW anymore. The user will probably still want to keep their apps running.

To detach a VPC from the transit gateway:

> . On the *Transit Gateways* page, click the VPC menu (*...*) and select *Detach*.

Reviewer: colon:
```suggestion
. On the *Transit Gateways* page, click the VPC menu (*...*) and select *Detach*:
```

+
_update screenshot - content and styles changed_
+
image::tgw-detach-vpc.png[Detach VPC option in the VPC menu]
. At the confirmation prompt, click *Detach*.
+
Detaching a VPC might take several minutes.
+

> After the VPC is detached, the *Attach VPC* button becomes available. 

Reviewer 2: Is this true? I didn't know we prevented adding new VPCs while an existing VPC is being detached.

> == Remove an Anypoint VPC from the Transit Gateway

Reviewer: why?

> If AWS rejects the attachment, remove it before trying to attach it again.

Reviewer 2: If the attachment is rejected, it will be because a person rejected it using the AWS UI.

To remove a VPC from the transit gateway:

> . On the *Transit Gateways* page, click the VPC menu (*...*) and select *Remove*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. On the *Transit Gateways* page, click the VPC menu (*...*) and select *Remove*:
```

+
_new screenshot_
+
// image::tgw-remove-vpc.png[Remove VPC option in the VPC menu]
. At the confirmation prompt, click *Remove*.
+
Removing a VPC might take several minutes.
+
After the VPC is removed, the *Attach VPC* button becomes available. 

> == Remove a Transit Gateway from Anypoint Platform

Reviewer: why?

= Manage Transit Gateway Attachments
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

image:logo-cloud-active.png[xref="deployment-strategies.adoc#cloudhub-deployments", title="CloudHub"]
image:logo-hybrid-disabled.png[xref="deployment-strategies.adoc#hybrid-deployments", title="Hybrid"]
image:logo-server-disabled.png[xref="deployment-strategies.adoc#anypoint-platform-pce-deployments", title="Anypoint Platform PCE"]
image:logo-rtf-disabled.png[xref="deployment-strategies.adoc#anypoint-runtime-fabric-deployments", title="Runtime Fabric"]

> Use Anypoint Runtime Manager to manage transit gateway attachments.

Reviewer: Consider mentioning a couple of the management task included here to provide an introduction to the scope of this topic.

== Rename a Transit Gateway Attachment

> You might want to rename a transit gateway attachment to match the attachment name in AWS. 

Reviewer: Nice!

To rename a transit gateway attachment:

. On the *Transit Gateways* page, click the Transit Gateway menu (*...*) and select *Edit name*:
+
image::tgw-rename.png[Edit name option in the Transit Gateways menu]
. In the popup window, enter a new name and click *Save*.

== Add a Route to the Transit Gateway Route Table

> 

Reviewer: Something to say about why/under what circumstances you might want or need to do this?

> . In Anypoint Platform, on the *Transit Gateways* page, in the *VPCs* section, click *Add Route*. 

Reviewer: See earlier suggestion about navblahblah

> . On the *Add VPC Route* window, use CIDR notation to enter a single subnet for your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *Add VPC Route* window, use CIDR notation to enter a single subnet for your
```

. Click *Add Route*.
+
Anypoint Platform submits the new route to AWS.

When the route addition succeeds, the *Transit Gateways* page shows the *Route added* message
and the *Transit Gateways* page shows the route CIDR in the route table.

In the route table, added routes show *Transit Gateway* as the value in the *Next Hop* column:

image::tgw-route-added.png[Transit Gateway in the Next Hop column of the route table]

== Remove a Route from the Transit Gateway Route Table

You might need to remove a route if you no longer want a subnet to be accessible through the transit gateway.

To remove a route:

. On the *Transit Gateways* page, in the *VPCs* section, click the *X* icon in the appropriate Transit Gateway route row of the route table:
+
image::tgw-remove-vpc-route.png[Remove route icon in the VPCs section]
. At the confirmation prompt, click *Remove*.

== Detach an Anypoint VPC from the Transit Gateway

You might need to detach a VPC so that you can reattach it.

Detaching a VPC from a transit gateway also deletes the attachment in AWS.
Any apps deployed to the VPC continue to run, but they are no longer connected to your Amazon VPCs and VPNs.

> To detach a VPC from the transit gateway:

Reviewer: Copying this to use an example of well-crafted "delete" task workup, which I often see presented as a simple "do this" without any reasoning...or with so much reasoning that the actual task gets lost....

. On the *Transit Gateways* page, click the VPC menu (*...*) and select *Detach*:
+
image::tgw-detach-vpc.png[Detach VPC option in the VPC menu]
. At the confirmation prompt, click *Detach*.
+

> Detaching a VPC might take several minutes.

Reviewer: ...and thank you for not using notice format for this.  :-)

In this case, you must remove the attachment before trying to attach it again.

To remove a VPC from the transit gateway:

. On the *Transit Gateways* page, click the VPC menu (*...*) and select *Remove*:
+
// image::tgw-remove-vpc.png[Remove VPC option in the VPC menu]
. At the confirmation prompt, click *Remove*.
+
Removing a VPC might take several minutes.
+
After the VPC is removed, the *Attach VPC* button becomes available. 

== Remove a Transit Gateway from Anypoint Platform

You might need to remove a transit gateway if you've reached your entitlement limit or you want to switch the connection to a new transit gateway.

If a transit gateway has no VPCs attached, you can remove it from Anypoint Platform. 

[NOTE]
Removing a transit gateway deletes the resource share in AWS that Anypoint Platform uses to access the transit gateway.

To remove a transit gateway from Anypoint Platform:

. On the *Transit Gateways* page, click the Transit Gateway menu (*...*) and select *Remove*:
+
image::tgw-remove.png[Remove option in the Transit Gateway menu]
+
Anypoint Platform prevents you from removing a transit gateway if it has VPCs attached.
+

> If the *Transit Gateways* page doesn't list any VPCs, but you can't delete the transit gateway, the transit gateway might be attached to a VPC that belongs to another business group that you don't have access to.

Reviewer: Nice inclusion of possible issue that would otherwise require a troubleshooting topic.
